docs/get-started/python.md, before:

# Getting started with CDK8s for Python
In this guide, we'll walk you through the most essential concepts you need to know in order to build a Kubernetes application using cdk8s for Python.

## Prerequisites
1. cdk8s for Python supports Python versions 3.7+. Check your Python version:
```bash
python3 --version
```

## Setting up an environment
### Initial setup
To get setup, follow these general steps:

1. To begin, you’ll need a development environment with pipenv 2018.11.26+ installed. If you’re not familiar with this setup, use these instructions to [setup pipenv](https://pipenv.pypa.io/en/latest/install/).

### Install the CLI
To initialize a cdk8s project and auto-generate Kubernetes manifests based on our code, we need the cdk8s CLI:

1. Run the following command to install the CLI using [npm](https://docs.npmjs.com/downloading-and-installing-node-js-and-npm). For more installation methods, see [Install the CDK8s CLI](cli/installation.md).
```console
npm install -g cdk8s-cli
```

### Create a project
Next, we’ll initialize a project to create the directory structure, install the cdk8s and cdk8s+ packages and all of the dependencies required to run an application using the [init command](https://cdk8s.io/docs/latest/cli/init/). 

1. In a terminal window, run the `init` command in an empty directory: 
```console
cdk8s init python-app
```

2. In your IDE, open the `main.py` file. 
```python
#!/usr/bin/env python
from constructs import Construct
from cdk8s import App, Chart


class MyChart(Chart):
   def __init__(self, scope: Construct, id: str):
       super().__init__(scope, id)

       # define resources here


app = App()
MyChart(app, "python")

app.synth()
```

This sample shows the basic structure of a cdk8s application with the essential libraries: **constructs** and **cdk8s**. These libraries supply the foundational classes and methods required for working with cdk8s. It includes the following components:

   * A custom `MyChart` class inherits from the [Chart](https://cdk8s.io/docs/latest/reference/cdk8s/python/#chart) base class provided by the cdk8s library, serving as a representation of the Kubernetes resources to be generated and managed.
   * The `__init__` method within the `MyChart` class is responsible for initializing the base class ([Chart](https://cdk8s.io/docs/latest/reference/cdk8s/python/#chart)) and specifying the Kubernetes resources. This method is invoked when creating an instance of the class.
   * An instance of the [App](https://cdk8s.io/docs/latest/reference/cdk8s/python/#app) class signifies the primary entry point of the cdk8s application and oversees the application's lifecycle and resources.
   * An instance of the `MyChart` class is created by passing the app instance and a string identifier, "python", as arguments. This action generates and registers the Kubernetes resources defined in the `MyChart` class within the application. Note that in this example, the "python" string identifier is autogenerated based on the current directory name.
   * The `synth` method is called on the `app` instance, which produces the required Kubernetes YAML manifest files based on the defined resources. Note that in this example, we haven't defined any resources within the `MyChart` constructor, so running the "cdk8s synth" command in the CLI would generate a blank Kubernetes manifest.

## Defining Kubernetes resources
Now, we are ready to define Kubernetes resources for our application. In this sample, we illustrate the creation of a basic Kubernetes [Service](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/) for a sample application. We start by importing the imports directory and the **k8s** sub-directory, which contains an `__init__.py` file where all cdk8s Kubernetes classes and functions are defined.

### Copy the code sample
1. Copy and paste the following code sample into the existing `main.py` file of your project.
```python
#!/usr/bin/env python
from cdk8s import App, Chart
from constructs import Construct
from imports import k8s


class AwesomeApp(Chart):
   def __init__(self, scope: Construct, ns: str, app_label: str):
       super().__init__(scope, ns)

       # Define a Kubernetes Deployment
       k8s.KubeDeployment(self, "my-deployment",
                       spec=k8s.DeploymentSpec(
                           replicas=3,
                           selector=k8s.LabelSelector(match_labels={"app": app_label}),
                           template=k8s.PodTemplateSpec(
                               metadata=k8s.ObjectMeta(labels={"app": app_label}),
                               spec=k8s.PodSpec(containers=[
                                   k8s.Container(
                                       name="app-container",
                                       image="nginx:1.19.10", # Using public nginx image
                                       ports=[k8s.ContainerPort(container_port=80)] # Nginx listens on port 80 by default
                                   )
                               ])
                           )
                       )
                   )

app = App()
AwesomeApp(app, "getting-started", app_label="my-app")

app.synth()
```

A few things worth noting about this sample:

- An `AwesomeApp` class is created by passing the app instance, a string identifier "getting-started", and a custom `app_label` ("my-app") as arguments. This action generates and registers the Kubernetes resources defined in the `AwesomeApp` class within the application. We use the custom `app_label` parameter to dynamically set the "app" key in the "label" selectors and "metadata" labels for our Kubernetes resources.
- The `__init__` method of the `AwesomeApp` class creates a Kubernetes [Service](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/) by instantiating the `k8s.KubeService` class with the following parameters: `self` as the scope of the Service resource within the `AwesomeApp` class, a string identifier "my-service", and a `k8s.ServiceSpec` object that defines the Service specification with a selector dictionary having the key "app" and the value set to the `app_label` parameter, a list of ports containing a single `k8s.ServicePort` object with `port` set to 80 and `target_port` set to 8080, and a `type` parameter with the value "LoadBalancer". The `app_label` parameter is passed to the `AwesomeApp` class.

## Generating Kubernetes manifests
After you have defined the Kubernetes resources for your project, you are ready to generate the Kubernetes manifest that will define your Service resource. 

### Run the synth command
1. Open a terminal and navigate to your project directory.
2. Run the [synth](https://cdk8s.io/docs/latest/cli/synth/) command. This command generates a Kubernetes manifest file in the `dist` folder of your project directory. The manifest file is based on the parameters specified in your application.
```console
cdk8s synth
```

### View the manifest
1. Open the `dist/getting-started.k8s.yaml` file. You should see a Kubernetes manifest similar to the following:
```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: getting-started-my-deployment-c85252a6
spec:
  replicas: 3
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: my-app
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: my-app
    spec:
      containers:
        - image: nginx:1.19.10
          name: app-container
          ports:
            - containerPort: 80
```

## Wrap up
Keep in mind, this is just the basic demonstration of cdk8s.

- To run a complete code sample, we recommend diving into the Kubernetes [Deployment](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment/) and [Service](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/) using the [CDK8s Core](https://github.com/cdk8s-team/cdk8s-examples/blob/main/python/cdk8s-core/main.py) sample application.

Commit message:

update: incorporate edits and add conclusion

docs/get-started/python.md, after:

# Getting started with CDK8s for Python
In this guide, we'll walk you through the most essential concepts you need to know in order to build a Kubernetes application using cdk8s for Python.

## Prerequisites
1. cdk8s for Python supports Python versions 3.7+. Check your Python version:
```bash
python3 --version
```

## Setting up an environment
### Initial setup
To get setup, follow these general steps:

1. To begin, you’ll need a development environment with pipenv 2018.11.26+ installed. If you’re not familiar with this setup, use these instructions to [setup pipenv](https://pipenv.pypa.io/en/latest/install/).

### Install the CLI
To initialize a cdk8s project and auto-generate Kubernetes manifests based on our code, we need the cdk8s CLI:

1. Run the following command to install the CLI using [npm](https://docs.npmjs.com/downloading-and-installing-node-js-and-npm). For more installation methods, see [Install the CDK8s CLI](cli/installation.md).
```console
npm install -g cdk8s-cli
```

### Create a project
Next, we’ll initialize a project to create the directory structure and install the necessary dependencies using the [init](https://cdk8s.io/docs/latest/cli/init/) command. 

1. In a terminal window, run the `init` command in an empty directory: 
```console
cdk8s init python-app
```

2. In your IDE, open the `main.py` file. 
```python
#!/usr/bin/env python
from constructs import Construct
from cdk8s import App, Chart


class MyChart(Chart):
   def __init__(self, scope: Construct, id: str):
       super().__init__(scope, id)

       # define resources here


app = App()
MyChart(app, "python")

app.synth()
```

This sample shows the basic structure of a cdk8s application with the essential libraries: **constructs** and **cdk8s**. These libraries supply the foundational classes and methods required for working with cdk8s. It includes the following components:

   * A custom `MyChart` class inherits from the [Chart](https://cdk8s.io/docs/latest/reference/cdk8s/python/#chart) base class provided by the cdk8s library, serving as a representation of the Kubernetes resources to be generated and managed.
   * The `__init__` method within the `MyChart` class is responsible for initializing the base class ([Chart](https://cdk8s.io/docs/latest/reference/cdk8s/python/#chart)) and specifying the Kubernetes resources. This method is invoked when creating an instance of the class.
   * An instance of the [App](https://cdk8s.io/docs/latest/reference/cdk8s/python/#app) class signifies the primary entry point of the cdk8s application and oversees the application's lifecycle and resources.
   * An instance of the `MyChart` class is created by passing the app instance and a string identifier, "python", as arguments. This action generates and registers the Kubernetes resources defined in the `MyChart` class within the application. Note that in this example, the "python" string identifier is autogenerated based on the current directory name.
   * The `synth` method is called on the `app` instance, which produces the required Kubernetes YAML manifest files based on the defined resources. Note that in this example, we haven't defined any resources within the `MyChart` constructor, so running the "cdk8s synth" command in the CLI would generate a blank Kubernetes manifest.

## Defining Kubernetes resources
Now, we are ready to define Kubernetes resources for our application. In this sample, we illustrate the creation of a basic Kubernetes [Service](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/) for a sample application. We start by importing the imports directory and the **k8s** sub-directory, which contains an `__init__.py` file where all cdk8s Kubernetes classes and functions are defined.

### Copy the code sample
1. Copy and paste the following code sample into the existing `main.py` file of your project.
```python
#!/usr/bin/env python
from cdk8s import App, Chart
from constructs import Construct
from imports import k8s


class AwesomeApp(Chart):
   def __init__(self, scope: Construct, ns: str, app_label: str):
       super().__init__(scope, ns)

       # Define a Kubernetes Deployment
       k8s.KubeDeployment(self, "my-deployment",
                       spec=k8s.DeploymentSpec(
                           replicas=3,
                           selector=k8s.LabelSelector(match_labels={"app": app_label}),
                           template=k8s.PodTemplateSpec(
                               metadata=k8s.ObjectMeta(labels={"app": app_label}),
                               spec=k8s.PodSpec(containers=[
                                   k8s.Container(
                                       name="app-container",
                                       image="nginx:1.19.10", # Using public nginx image
                                       ports=[k8s.ContainerPort(container_port=80)] # Nginx listens on port 80 by default
                                   )
                               ])
                           )
                       )
                   )

app = App()
AwesomeApp(app, "getting-started", app_label="my-app")

app.synth()
```

A few things worth noting about this sample:

- An `AwesomeApp` class is created by passing the app instance, a string identifier "getting-started", and a custom `app_label` ("my-app") as arguments. This action generates and registers the Kubernetes resources defined in the `AwesomeApp` class within the application. We use the custom `app_label` parameter to dynamically set the "app" key in the "label" selectors and "metadata" labels for our Kubernetes resources.
- The `__init__` method of the `AwesomeApp` class creates a Kubernetes [Service](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/) by instantiating the `k8s.KubeService` class with the following parameters: `self` as the scope of the Service resource within the `AwesomeApp` class, a string identifier "my-service", and a `k8s.ServiceSpec` object that defines the Service specification with a selector dictionary having the key "app" and the value set to the `app_label` parameter, a list of ports containing a single `k8s.ServicePort` object with `port` set to 80 and `target_port` set to 8080, and a `type` parameter with the value "LoadBalancer". The `app_label` parameter is passed to the `AwesomeApp` class.

## Generating Kubernetes manifests
After you have defined the Kubernetes resources for your project, you are ready to generate the Kubernetes manifest that will define your Service resource. 

### Run the synth command
1. Open a terminal and navigate to your project directory.
2. Run the [synth](https://cdk8s.io/docs/latest/cli/synth/) command. This command generates a Kubernetes manifest file in the `dist` folder of your project directory. The manifest file is based on the parameters specified in your application.
```console
cdk8s synth
```

### View the manifest
1. Open the `dist/getting-started.k8s.yaml` file. You should see a Kubernetes manifest similar to the following:
```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: getting-started-my-deployment-c85252a6
spec:
  replicas: 3
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: my-app
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: my-app
    spec:
      containers:
        - image: nginx:1.19.10
          name: app-container
          ports:
            - containerPort: 80
```

## Conclusion
Throughout this guide, we introduced you to the cdk8s Python library and guided you through the process of creating a cdk8s Python application. We initiated a simple project and constructed a Kubernetes Deployment using cdk8s code. This included leveraging Python-specific programming language conventions to dynamically set the "app" key in "label" selectors and "metadata" labels for Kubernetes resources using Python's versatile handling of dictionary data structures. 

## Next up
- To run a complete code sample, we recommend diving into the Kubernetes [Deployment](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment/) and [Service](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/) using the [CDK8s Core](https://github.com/cdk8s-team/cdk8s-examples/blob/main/python/cdk8s-core/main.py) sample application.
