ADOPTERS.md, before:

# Who is using cdk8s?

cdk8s has a variety of users and use cases.
Many customers want to learn from others who have already implemented cdk8s in their environments.

The following is a self-reported list of users to help identify adoption and points of contact.

## Community

We have two slack channels where you can ask questions and share ideas. We hang out in both pretty often.

- [#cdk8s](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C02KCDACGTT) on the [CNCF workspace](https://communityinviter.com/apps/cloud-native/cncf).
- [#cdk8s](https://cdk-dev.slack.com/archives/C0184GCBY4X) on the [cdk.dev workspace](https://cdk.dev/)

## Add yourself

If you are using cdk8s please consider adding yourself as a user by opening a pull request to this file.
If you are open to others contacting you about your use of cdk8s, add your Slack name or email address.

## Adopters (Alphabetical)

| Organization | Description | Contacts | Link |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| [example] Amazon, Inc. | Building cdk8s and cdk8s+ | `@jgarr`, `@iliapolo` | [Announcing GA for cdk8s](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/containers/announcing-the-general-availability-of-cdk8s-and-support-for-go/) |
| 8gears Container Registry | With cdk8s we dynamically generate manifests for different destinations of our Harbor-based SaaS. Multi-Cloud, Edge.  | `@vad1mo`  | [container-registry.com](https://container-registry.com/) |
| Cloudflare | Using cdk8s to manage large multi-tenant clusters with low drift and high velocity | `@heckler1` | [Cloudflare](https://www.cloudflare.com) |
| Concrete Genius | CDK and cdk8s are used to manage our AWS and local development infrastructure | `@njlaw` | [Concrete Genius](https://concretegenius.com) |
| Datamole | Relying on seamless CDK - CDK8s interoperability to manage AWS EKS workloads | `@datamole-ai` | [Datamole](https://www.datamole.ai/) |
| Finimize | Using both CDK and cdk8s to create a consistent experience when describing our IaC | `@pykita` | [Finimize](https://finimize.com/) |
| PreciseTarget | We use cdk8s to manage all applications running in kubernetes across mulitple clusters. | `@steven-esser` | [PreciseTarget](https://www.precisetarget.com) |

Commit message:

Add Griffin to adopters
Signed-off-by: Dan Meyers <dan.meyers@griffin.sh>
Signed-off-by: Dan Meyers <d.meyers@infinitefunspace.co.uk>

ADOPTERS.md, after:

# Who is using cdk8s?

cdk8s has a variety of users and use cases.
Many customers want to learn from others who have already implemented cdk8s in their environments.

The following is a self-reported list of users to help identify adoption and points of contact.

## Community

We have two slack channels where you can ask questions and share ideas. We hang out in both pretty often.

- [#cdk8s](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C02KCDACGTT) on the [CNCF workspace](https://communityinviter.com/apps/cloud-native/cncf).
- [#cdk8s](https://cdk-dev.slack.com/archives/C0184GCBY4X) on the [cdk.dev workspace](https://cdk.dev/)

## Add yourself

If you are using cdk8s please consider adding yourself as a user by opening a pull request to this file.
If you are open to others contacting you about your use of cdk8s, add your Slack name or email address.

## Adopters (Alphabetical)

| Organization | Description | Contacts | Link |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| [example] Amazon, Inc. | Building cdk8s and cdk8s+ | `@jgarr`, `@iliapolo` | [Announcing GA for cdk8s](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/containers/announcing-the-general-availability-of-cdk8s-and-support-for-go/) |
| 8gears Container Registry | With cdk8s we dynamically generate manifests for different destinations of our Harbor-based SaaS. Multi-Cloud, Edge.  | `@vad1mo`  | [container-registry.com](https://container-registry.com/) |
| Cloudflare | Using cdk8s to manage large multi-tenant clusters with low drift and high velocity | `@heckler1` | [Cloudflare](https://www.cloudflare.com) |
| Concrete Genius | CDK and cdk8s are used to manage our AWS and local development infrastructure | `@njlaw` | [Concrete Genius](https://concretegenius.com) |
| Datamole | Relying on seamless CDK - CDK8s interoperability to manage AWS EKS workloads | `@datamole-ai` | [Datamole](https://www.datamole.ai/) |
| Finimize | Using both CDK and cdk8s to create a consistent experience when describing our IaC | `@pykita` | [Finimize](https://finimize.com/) |
| Griffin | Using CDK, CDK8s, and CDK8s+ to manage our AWS infra and EKS workloads | `@dancmeyers` | [Griffin](https://griffin.com/) |
| PreciseTarget | We use cdk8s to manage all applications running in kubernetes across mulitple clusters. | `@steven-esser` | [PreciseTarget](https://www.precisetarget.com) |
