CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contribution Guide

**cdk8s** is licensed under [Apache 2.0](./LICENSE) and accepts contributions via
GitHub pull requests. This document outlines some of the conventions on commit
message formatting, contact points for developers, and other resources to help
get contributions into cdk8s.

You can contribute to **cdk8s** in many ways. Contributions of all shapes and sizes are
welcome and celebrated:

- [Reporting Issues](#reporting-issues)
- [Code Contributions](#code-contributions)
- [RFCs](#rfcs)
- [For Maintainers](#for-maintainers)

We follows the [CNCF Community Code of
Conduct](https://github.com/cncf/foundation/blob/master/code-of-conduct.md)

## Reporting Issues

If any part of the project has bugs or documentation mistakes, please let us
know by [raising an issue][new-issue]. We treat bugs and mistakes very seriously
and believe no issue is too small. Before creating a bug report, please check
that an issue reporting the same problem does not already exist.

An issue can either be a **bug report** or a **suggestion**. If you wish to ask
a question or seek guidance, please consider one of the other [support
channels](#getting-help).

[new-issue]: ./issues/new/choose

### Bug reports

To make the bug report accurate and easy to understand, please try to create bug
reports that are:

- **Specific**: Include as much details as possible: which version, what
  environment, what configuration, etc.
- **Reproducible**: Include the steps to reproduce the problem. We understand
  some issues might be hard to reproduce, please includes the steps that might
  lead to the problem. If possible, please provide a minimal code snippet that
  reproduces the bug.
- **Isolated**: Please try to isolate and reproduce the bug with minimum
  dependencies. It would significantly slow down the speed to fix a bug if too
  many dependencies are involved in a bug report.
- **Unique**: Do not duplicate existing bug report.
- **Scoped**: One bug per report. Do not follow up with another bug inside one
  report.

We might ask for further information to locate a bug. A duplicated bug report
will be closed.

Submit a bug report [here](new-issue).

### Suggestions

We also accept suggestions for new features or missing capabilities as GitHub
issues. The most important aspect of a suggestion issue is to provide as many
details as possible about your **use case** and less focus on the solution. It
is usually possible to support different use cases in many different ways, and
we need to understand the motivation before we dive into a solution.

If you wish to suggest a major change to the project, please consider to submit
an [RFC](#rfcs) instead of a simple issue. An RFC also starts with a GitHub
issue.

Submit a suggestion [here](new-issue)

## Code Contributions

The general workflow for code contributions:

1. Submit/find an issue
2. Clone this repo
3. Make your code change
4. Write tests & update docs
5. Build & test locally
6. Submit a pull request
7. (Iterate)
8. Your PR will be approved and merged

### Tracking issue

All pull requests should be tracked with a GitHub issue.

You should search for an [existing
issue](https://github.com/awslabs/cdk8s/issues) or raise a [new
bug or suggestion](#reporting-issues).


Add a comment indicating you are willing to pick it up in order to ensure no one
else is currently working on it.

If this is a major contribution, consider submitting an [RFC](#rfcs) to obtain
feedback from the community and maintainers.

### Development environment

Prerequisites:

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) >= 12.14.0
- [yarn](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/lang/en/) >= 1.22.0

Prepare your environment:

1. Fork this repo and obtain a local clone.
2. Install all dependencies: `yarn install`
3. Run `yarn build` to build all modules.

### Linking against this repository

The script `./tools/link-all.sh` can be used to generate symlinks to all modules in this repository under some `node_module`
directory. This can be used to develop against this repo as a local dependency.

One can use the `postinstall` script to symlink this repo:

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "postinstall": "../cdk8s/tools/link-all.sh"
  }
}
```

This assumes this repo is a sibling of the target repo and will install the CDK as a linked dependency during
__yarn install__.

### Unit tests

Unit tests are located under the `test/` directory within each module and use the [jest](https://jestjs.io/) framework.

To run unit tests, execute `yarn test` either from the root of the repo (to unit test all modules) or from individual module directories:

    yarn test

Out tests utilize [jest snapshot testing](https://jestjs.io/docs/en/snapshot-testing). In case a snapshot needs to be updated, just run:

    yarn test -u

### Integration Tests

Integration tests are executed *after* we bundle the release. This means that in
order to execute integration tests you'll need to create a bundle by running the
following command from the root of the repo:

    yarn run package

This will result in `./dist` that contains all the ready-to-publish artifacts.

Now, you can run integration tests via:

    yarn integ

Our integration tests also utilize snapshot testing. To update integration test snapshots, run:

    yarn integ:update

#### Running Integration Tests

The `test` directory contains integration tests for the cdk8s project.

Each subdirectory represents a single test, with an entrypoint of `test.sh`.
Tests are written as simple shell scripts and can simulate user activity.

You can either run individual tests by executing their entrypoint directly (e.g.
`test-python-app/test.sh`) or run all tests by executing the script
`./test-all.sh`.

Tests assume the `cdk8s` CLI is installed and in the PATH, and will use the same
version of the `cdk8s` module (this is the behavior of `cdk8s init`).

You can also execute a test (or all of them) against the `dist` build artifact:

```shell
$ yarn install
$ yarn build
$ yarn run package # creates "dist/"
$ cd test
$ ./run-against-dist ./test-all.sh
# or
$ ./run-against-dist ./test-typescript-app/test.sh
```

#### Writing Integration Tests

1. Create a new subdirectory with a `test-` prefix.
2. Create a file named `test.sh`, make it executable.

Test Environment:

- The script `test.sh` is executed within a temporary working directory under
  /tmp/xxxx/test (where xxxx is some random tmp file).
- See existing tests as examples on how to bring in auxiliary files to the test.
- Test MUST NOT install any dependencies or the `cdk8s` CLI. They can expect it
  to be available in the environment.
- To install dependencies from package managers, use `yarn`, `npm`, `pipenv`,
  `mvn` and `nuget`. Those programs will be shimmed to allow consuming local
  dependencies.

#### Snapshot Testing

Some integration tests utilize a simple snapshot testing mechanism.

To update snapshots, run tests with:

    UPDATE_SNAPSHOTS=1

Or, run this from the root of the repo:

    yarn integ:update


### Pull Requests

We use the PR title when we automatically generate the change log for each
release. Therefore please following these guidelines to the letter:

- **PR title**:
  - Must adhere to [conventional
    commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/).
  - All lowercase with no period at the end of the title
  - If this is a `fix` (bug) the title should describe the bug
  - If this is a `feat` (feature) the title should describe the feature
- **PR description**:
  - Describe how did you fix the bug or what changes you had to make in order to
    implement the feature
  - Indicate `fixes #NNN` or `resolves #NNN` with the tracking issue number.
  - If you *had* to test your change manually, describe how you tested it and
    paste the test results.
  - If this is a breaking change, the last paragraph should describe the
    breaking change with the prefix `BREAKING CHANGE: xxxxxx`.

## Documentation

Documentation is rendered from markdown using
[mkdocs-material](https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/) and sourced from
the [`docs`](https://github.com/awslabs/cdk8s/tree/master/docs) directory.

API documentation for `cdk8s` and all `cdk8s-plus-*` packages is auto-generated from inline
docstrings during build.

To test locally, install python3 deps:

```shell
$ pip3 install -r docs/requirements.txt
```

And then:

```shell
$ mkdocs serve
```

This will serve a local web server with the website.

> A good reference for syntax and capabilities is the [mkdocs-material](https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material) website.

## Examples

Examples are stored under
[`examples`](https://github.com/awslabs/cdk8s/tree/master/examples) and
organized according to programming language.

Every example also has an entry under
[`docs/examples/xxx`](https://github.com/awslabs/cdk8s/tree/master/docs/examples)
which describes the example and includes links to the source code (on the main
branch).

## RFCs

An RFC (request for comments) is a document that proposes and details a change
or addition to cdk8s. It also is a process for reviewing and discussing the
proposal and tracking its implementation. "Request for comments" means a request
for discussion and oversight about the future of cdk8s from contributors and
users. It is an open forum for suggestions, questions, and feedback.

To create an RFC follow this process:

1. Create an [issue][new-issue] which will be the tracking issue for this RFC.
   - Title should represent the title of the RFC.
   - Description should provide the motivation for the RFC.
2. Create a markdown file based off of
   [rfc/0000-template.md](https://github.com/awslabs/cdk8s/blob/master/rfc/0000-template.md) under the
   `rfc/<nnnn>-<title-of-rfc>` where `<nnnn>` is the tracking issue number and
   `<title-of-rfc>` is a symbolic name for the title. For example:
   `rfc/0030-construct-operators.md`.
3. File a pull request with this markdown file. The title of the PR should
   indicate `rfc: <nnnn> <same as issue title>`.
4. The RFC will be reviewed as a pull request and once merged it means it is
   ready for implementation.

## Community Meeting

Join us for the CDK8s community meeting which takes place the [2nd Monday of the
month at 9:00am Pacific
Time](https://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=9:00&tz=PT%20%28Pacific%20Time%29).

- Meeting link: [https://chime.aws/7929414778](https://chime.aws/7929414778)
- [Agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QmZS2_cphxbs2VPfDCkrUVcoDwiawryh704hEfAyrBk/edit?usp=sharing)

## For Maintainers

This section includes information that is relevant for the maintainers of the project.

### Version

The current version of the project is mastered in the root `lerna.json` file. All other
package.json files use `0.0.0`. This allows bumping a new version without
needing to modify multiple files and avoid merge conflicts in post-release rebases.

### Release Protocol

To release a new version of cdk8s following these steps:

```shell
$ yarn bump
```

This will create a new CHANGELOG entry (from conventional commits), bump the version in
`package.json` and create a bump commit.

Now, push to `master` (in the future we will release from a release branch, but in the meantime we release directly from master):

```shell
$ git push origin master
```

This will trigger the [release
workflow](https://github.com/awslabs/cdk8s/blob/master/.github/workflows/release.yml)
which will release to all package managers and will also create a GitHub release
with a tag.

---

Portions of this guide were adopted from the contribution guides of the [AWS
CDK](https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk) and [etcd](https://github.com/etcd-io/etcd).

Commit message:

Add instructions about using jsii docker image.

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contribution Guide

**cdk8s** is licensed under [Apache 2.0](./LICENSE) and accepts contributions via
GitHub pull requests. This document outlines some of the conventions on commit
message formatting, contact points for developers, and other resources to help
get contributions into cdk8s.

You can contribute to **cdk8s** in many ways. Contributions of all shapes and sizes are
welcome and celebrated:

- [Reporting Issues](#reporting-issues)
- [Code Contributions](#code-contributions)
- [RFCs](#rfcs)
- [For Maintainers](#for-maintainers)

We follows the [CNCF Community Code of
Conduct](https://github.com/cncf/foundation/blob/master/code-of-conduct.md)

## Reporting Issues

If any part of the project has bugs or documentation mistakes, please let us
know by [raising an issue][new-issue]. We treat bugs and mistakes very seriously
and believe no issue is too small. Before creating a bug report, please check
that an issue reporting the same problem does not already exist.

An issue can either be a **bug report** or a **suggestion**. If you wish to ask
a question or seek guidance, please consider one of the other [support
channels](#getting-help).

[new-issue]: ./issues/new/choose

### Bug reports

To make the bug report accurate and easy to understand, please try to create bug
reports that are:

- **Specific**: Include as much details as possible: which version, what
  environment, what configuration, etc.
- **Reproducible**: Include the steps to reproduce the problem. We understand
  some issues might be hard to reproduce, please includes the steps that might
  lead to the problem. If possible, please provide a minimal code snippet that
  reproduces the bug.
- **Isolated**: Please try to isolate and reproduce the bug with minimum
  dependencies. It would significantly slow down the speed to fix a bug if too
  many dependencies are involved in a bug report.
- **Unique**: Do not duplicate existing bug report.
- **Scoped**: One bug per report. Do not follow up with another bug inside one
  report.

We might ask for further information to locate a bug. A duplicated bug report
will be closed.

Submit a bug report [here](new-issue).

### Suggestions

We also accept suggestions for new features or missing capabilities as GitHub
issues. The most important aspect of a suggestion issue is to provide as many
details as possible about your **use case** and less focus on the solution. It
is usually possible to support different use cases in many different ways, and
we need to understand the motivation before we dive into a solution.

If you wish to suggest a major change to the project, please consider to submit
an [RFC](#rfcs) instead of a simple issue. An RFC also starts with a GitHub
issue.

Submit a suggestion [here](new-issue)

## Code Contributions

The general workflow for code contributions:

1. Submit/find an issue
2. Clone this repo
3. Make your code change
4. Write tests & update docs
5. Build & test locally
6. Submit a pull request
7. (Iterate)
8. Your PR will be approved and merged

### Tracking issue

All pull requests should be tracked with a GitHub issue.

You should search for an [existing
issue](https://github.com/awslabs/cdk8s/issues) or raise a [new
bug or suggestion](#reporting-issues).


Add a comment indicating you are willing to pick it up in order to ensure no one
else is currently working on it.

If this is a major contribution, consider submitting an [RFC](#rfcs) to obtain
feedback from the community and maintainers.

### Development environment

Prerequisites:

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) >= 12.14.0
- [yarn](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/lang/en/) >= 1.22.0

Prepare your environment:

1. Fork this repo and obtain a local clone.
2. Install all dependencies: `yarn install`
3. Run `yarn build` to build all modules.

### Linking against this repository

The script `./tools/link-all.sh` can be used to generate symlinks to all modules in this repository under some `node_module`
directory. This can be used to develop against this repo as a local dependency.

One can use the `postinstall` script to symlink this repo:

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "postinstall": "../cdk8s/tools/link-all.sh"
  }
}
```

This assumes this repo is a sibling of the target repo and will install the CDK as a linked dependency during
__yarn install__.

### Unit tests

Unit tests are located under the `test/` directory within each module and use the [jest](https://jestjs.io/) framework.

To run unit tests, execute `yarn test` either from the root of the repo (to unit test all modules) or from individual module directories:

    yarn test

Out tests utilize [jest snapshot testing](https://jestjs.io/docs/en/snapshot-testing). In case a snapshot needs to be updated, just run:

    yarn test -u

### Integration Tests

Integration tests are executed *after* we bundle the release. This means that in
order to execute integration tests you'll need to create a bundle by running the
following command from the root of the repo:

    yarn run package

This will result in `./dist` that contains all the ready-to-publish artifacts.

Now, you can run integration tests via:

    yarn integ

Our integration tests also utilize snapshot testing. To update integration test snapshots, run:

    yarn integ:update

#### Running Integration Tests

The `test` directory contains integration tests for the cdk8s project.

Each subdirectory represents a single test, with an entrypoint of `test.sh`.
Tests are written as simple shell scripts and can simulate user activity.

You can either run individual tests by executing their entrypoint directly (e.g.
`test-python-app/test.sh`) or run all tests by executing the script
`./test-all.sh`.

Tests assume the `cdk8s` CLI is installed and in the PATH, and will use the same
version of the `cdk8s` module (this is the behavior of `cdk8s init`).

You can also execute a test (or all of them) against the `dist` build artifact:

```shell
$ yarn install
$ yarn build
$ yarn run package # creates "dist/"
$ cd test
$ ./run-against-dist ./test-all.sh
# or
$ ./run-against-dist ./test-typescript-app/test.sh
```

#### Writing Integration Tests

1. Create a new subdirectory with a `test-` prefix.
2. Create a file named `test.sh`, make it executable.

Test Environment:

- The script `test.sh` is executed within a temporary working directory under
  /tmp/xxxx/test (where xxxx is some random tmp file).
- See existing tests as examples on how to bring in auxiliary files to the test.
- Test MUST NOT install any dependencies or the `cdk8s` CLI. They can expect it
  to be available in the environment.
- To install dependencies from package managers, use `yarn`, `npm`, `pipenv`,
  `mvn` and `nuget`. Those programs will be shimmed to allow consuming local
  dependencies.

#### Snapshot Testing

Some integration tests utilize a simple snapshot testing mechanism.

To update snapshots, run tests with:

    UPDATE_SNAPSHOTS=1

Or, run this from the root of the repo:

    yarn integ:update

#### Docker environment for integration tests

Due to the polyglot nature of the [jsii](https://github.com/aws/jsii) tools used by cdk8s, 
the toolchain requirements are somewhat more complicated than for most projects.  To 
help with this, you can use the `jsii/superchain` docker image that includes all the required tools.

In order to get an interactive shell within a superchain container you can use the 
following command.

```console
docker run --rm --net=host -it -v $PWD:$PWD -w $PWD jsii/superchain
```

Then once in the docker shell, you can package and execute the tests as normal.

```shell
$ pip install pipenv  # Currently not included in jsii docker image
$ yarn package
$ yarn integ
```

> Note: this may leave some files owned as the docker root user id.  These will need to 
  be cleaned up manually.

### Pull Requests

We use the PR title when we automatically generate the change log for each
release. Therefore please following these guidelines to the letter:

- **PR title**:
  - Must adhere to [conventional
    commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/).
  - All lowercase with no period at the end of the title
  - If this is a `fix` (bug) the title should describe the bug
  - If this is a `feat` (feature) the title should describe the feature
- **PR description**:
  - Describe how did you fix the bug or what changes you had to make in order to
    implement the feature
  - Indicate `fixes #NNN` or `resolves #NNN` with the tracking issue number.
  - If you *had* to test your change manually, describe how you tested it and
    paste the test results.
  - If this is a breaking change, the last paragraph should describe the
    breaking change with the prefix `BREAKING CHANGE: xxxxxx`.

## Documentation

Documentation is rendered from markdown using
[mkdocs-material](https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/) and sourced from
the [`docs`](https://github.com/awslabs/cdk8s/tree/master/docs) directory.

API documentation for `cdk8s` and all `cdk8s-plus-*` packages is auto-generated from inline
docstrings during build.

To test locally, install python3 deps:

```shell
$ pip3 install -r docs/requirements.txt
```

And then:

```shell
$ mkdocs serve
```

This will serve a local web server with the website.

> A good reference for syntax and capabilities is the [mkdocs-material](https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material) website.

## Examples

Examples are stored under
[`examples`](https://github.com/awslabs/cdk8s/tree/master/examples) and
organized according to programming language.

Every example also has an entry under
[`docs/examples/xxx`](https://github.com/awslabs/cdk8s/tree/master/docs/examples)
which describes the example and includes links to the source code (on the main
branch).

## RFCs

An RFC (request for comments) is a document that proposes and details a change
or addition to cdk8s. It also is a process for reviewing and discussing the
proposal and tracking its implementation. "Request for comments" means a request
for discussion and oversight about the future of cdk8s from contributors and
users. It is an open forum for suggestions, questions, and feedback.

To create an RFC follow this process:

1. Create an [issue][new-issue] which will be the tracking issue for this RFC.
   - Title should represent the title of the RFC.
   - Description should provide the motivation for the RFC.
2. Create a markdown file based off of
   [rfc/0000-template.md](https://github.com/awslabs/cdk8s/blob/master/rfc/0000-template.md) under the
   `rfc/<nnnn>-<title-of-rfc>` where `<nnnn>` is the tracking issue number and
   `<title-of-rfc>` is a symbolic name for the title. For example:
   `rfc/0030-construct-operators.md`.
3. File a pull request with this markdown file. The title of the PR should
   indicate `rfc: <nnnn> <same as issue title>`.
4. The RFC will be reviewed as a pull request and once merged it means it is
   ready for implementation.

## Community Meeting

Join us for the CDK8s community meeting which takes place the [2nd Monday of the
month at 9:00am Pacific
Time](https://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=9:00&tz=PT%20%28Pacific%20Time%29).

- Meeting link: [https://chime.aws/7929414778](https://chime.aws/7929414778)
- [Agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QmZS2_cphxbs2VPfDCkrUVcoDwiawryh704hEfAyrBk/edit?usp=sharing)

## For Maintainers

This section includes information that is relevant for the maintainers of the project.

### Version

The current version of the project is mastered in the root `lerna.json` file. All other
package.json files use `0.0.0`. This allows bumping a new version without
needing to modify multiple files and avoid merge conflicts in post-release rebases.

### Release Protocol

To release a new version of cdk8s following these steps:

```shell
$ yarn bump
```

This will create a new CHANGELOG entry (from conventional commits), bump the version in
`package.json` and create a bump commit.

Now, push to `master` (in the future we will release from a release branch, but in the meantime we release directly from master):

```shell
$ git push origin master
```

This will trigger the [release
workflow](https://github.com/awslabs/cdk8s/blob/master/.github/workflows/release.yml)
which will release to all package managers and will also create a GitHub release
with a tag.

---

Portions of this guide were adopted from the contribution guides of the [AWS
CDK](https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk) and [etcd](https://github.com/etcd-io/etcd).
