examples/README.md, before:

# Examples

This directory includes examples for cdk8s. Each example in this directory can
stand on its own and each has its own README with more details.

> We try to maintain the same set of examples in all supported languages. [Help us!](../CONTRIBUTING.md).

Title|Description|README
-----|-----------|-----
hello|Deploys [hello-kubernetes](https://github.com/paulbouwer/hello-kubernetes) as a Service behind a LoadBalancer.|[TypeScript](./typescript/hello/README.md) [Python](python/hello/README.md)
web-service|Demonstrates how to make your first high-level construct which represents a web service which abstracts the `hello` example from earlier into a reusable piece of infrastructure.|[TypeScript](./typescript/web-service/README.md) [Python](./python/web-service/README.md)
crd|Shows how to import and use [Custom Resource Definitions](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/)|[TypeScript](./typescript/crd/README.md) [Python](./python/crd/README.md)
podinfo|Exploration of high-level APIs for **Deployment**, **Service**, **AutoScaler** and **Ingress** based on the [podinfo project](https://hub.docker.com/r/stefanprodan/podinfo)|[TypeScript](./typscript/../typescript/podinfo/README.md)

Commit message:

feat(examples): Elasticsearch query using CDK8s+ and CRD (#281)

examples/README.md, after:

# Examples

This directory includes examples for cdk8s. Each example in this directory can
stand on its own and each has its own README with more details.

> We try to maintain the same set of examples in all supported languages. [Help us!](../CONTRIBUTING.md).

Title|Description|README
-----|-----------|-----
hello|Deploys [hello-kubernetes](https://github.com/paulbouwer/hello-kubernetes) as a Service behind a LoadBalancer.|[TypeScript](./typescript/hello/README.md) [Python](python/hello/README.md)
web-service|Demonstrates how to make your first high-level construct which represents a web service which abstracts the `hello` example from earlier into a reusable piece of infrastructure.|[TypeScript](./typescript/web-service/README.md) [Python](./python/web-service/README.md)
crd|Shows how to import and use [Custom Resource Definitions](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/)|[TypeScript](./typescript/crd/README.md) [Python](./python/crd/README.md)
cdk8s-plus-elasticsearch-query|Creating a query service on top of Elasticsearch with CDK8s+|[TypeScript](./typescript/cdk8s-plus-elasticsearch-query)
podinfo|Exploration of high-level APIs for **Deployment**, **Service**, **AutoScaler** and **Ingress** based on the [podinfo project](https://hub.docker.com/r/stefanprodan/podinfo)|[TypeScript](./typscript/../typescript/podinfo/README.md)
