packages/cdk8s/README.md, before:

# cdk8s

> Cloud Development Kit for Kubernetes

**cdk8s** is a software development framework for defining Kubernetes
applications using rich object-oriented APIs. It allows developers to leverage
the full power of software in order to define abstract components called
"constructs" which compose Kubernetes resources or other constructs into
higher-level abstractions.

This library is the foundation of **cdk8s**. It includes base types that are
used to define cdk8s applications.

## Chart

The `Chart` is a container that synthesizes a single Kubernetes manifest.

```ts
class MyChart extends Chart {
  constructor(scope: Construct, ns: string) {
    super(scope, ns);

    // add contents here
  }
}
```

During synthesis, charts collect all the `ApiObject` nodes (recursively) and
emit a single YAML manifest that includes all these objects.

## ApiObject

An `ApiObject` is a construct that represents an entry in a Kubernetes manifest.
In most cases, you won't use `ApiObject` directly but rather use classes that
are generated by the cdk8s CLI and extend this base class.

## License

This project is distributed under the [Apache License, Version 2.0](./LICENSE).

This module is part of the [cdk8s project](https://github.com/awslabs/cdk8s).

Commit message:

chore: add `Testing` to cdk8s README

packages/cdk8s/README.md, after:

# cdk8s

> Cloud Development Kit for Kubernetes

**cdk8s** is a software development framework for defining Kubernetes
applications using rich object-oriented APIs. It allows developers to leverage
the full power of software in order to define abstract components called
"constructs" which compose Kubernetes resources or other constructs into
higher-level abstractions.

This library is the foundation of **cdk8s**. It includes base types that are
used to define cdk8s applications.

## Chart

The `Chart` is a container that synthesizes a single Kubernetes manifest.

```ts
class MyChart extends Chart {
  constructor(scope: Construct, ns: string) {
    super(scope, ns);

    // add contents here
  }
}
```

During synthesis, charts collect all the `ApiObject` nodes (recursively) and
emit a single YAML manifest that includes all these objects.

## ApiObject

An `ApiObject` is a construct that represents an entry in a Kubernetes manifest.
In most cases, you won't use `ApiObject` directly but rather use classes that
are generated by the cdk8s CLI and extend this base class.


### Testing

cdk8s bundles a set of test utilities under the `Testing` class:

* `Testing.app()` returns an `App` object bound to a temporary output directory.
* `Testing.synth(chart)` returns the Kubernetes manifest synthesized from a
  chart.



## License

This project is distributed under the [Apache License, Version 2.0](./LICENSE).

This module is part of the [cdk8s project](https://github.com/awslabs/cdk8s).
