packages/cdk8s-cli/README.md, before:

# cdk8s-cli

> A command-line-interface for CDK for Kubernetes

**cdk8s** is a software development framework for defining Kubernetes
applications using rich object-oriented APIs. It allows developers to leverage
the full power of software in order to define abstract components called
"constructs" which compose Kubernetes resources or other constructs into
higher-level abstractions.

## Installation

Install globally via `npm`:

```shell
npm install -g cdk8s-cli
```

## Generating classes for Kubernetes API objects

To generate constructs for all Kubernetes API objects of a certain version, use
the `import` subcommand:

```shell
$ cdk8s import [--api VERSION] [--output OUTDIR]
```

* `VERSION` is the Kubernetes API version (default is 1.14.0)
* `OUTDIR` is the output directory where source files are generated (default is
  `.gen`)

This command will create a `.gen` directory with constructs for all API objects
of the specified version.

## License

This project is distributed under the [Apache License, Version 2.0](./LICENSE).

This module is part of the [cdk8s project](https://github.com/awslabs/cdk8s).

Commit message:

feat(cli): "cdk8s gen" is now "cdk8s import k8s"
Rename the "gen" command to "import" and require an argument that will be used to indicate the spec to import. This will be later used to support importing from other specs like CRDs.

Improvements to the typescript app template:

 - Include `help.txt` with useful commands
 - Add a `compile` command that only runs tic
 - Fix #31 by adding instructions on how to upgrade
 - Create an integration test for `cdk8s init typescript-app`.

Resolves #40

BREAKING CHANGE: `cdk8s gen` is now `cdk8s import k8s` and output goes to `imports/k8s.ts` instead of `.gen/index.ts`.

packages/cdk8s-cli/README.md, after:

# cdk8s-cli

> A command-line-interface for CDK for Kubernetes

**cdk8s** is a software development framework for defining Kubernetes
applications using rich object-oriented APIs. It allows developers to leverage
the full power of software in order to define abstract components called
"constructs" which compose Kubernetes resources or other constructs into
higher-level abstractions.

## Installation

Install globally via `yarn` (or `npm`):

```shell
yarn global add cdk8s-cli
```

## init - Create new projects

This command creates new cdk8s projects from built in templates:

```shell
$ cdk9s init TEMPLATE
```

The following example will create a new TypeScript app project:

```shell
$ mkdir my-fun-little-project
$ cd my-fun-little-project
$ cdk8s init typescript-app
```

## import - Import API objects as constructs

To generate constructs for all Kubernetes API objects of a certain version, use
the `import` subcommand:

```shell
$ cdk8s import SPEC
```

Currently, the only supported spec is `"k8s"` which represents the core
Kubernetes API. The import command will create a file under `imports/k8s.ts`
with constructs for each API object in the spec.

The following example will import the latest version of the Kubernetes API
objects:

```shell
$ cdk8s import k8s
```

## License

This project is distributed under the [Apache License, Version 2.0](./LICENSE).

This module is part of the [cdk8s project](https://github.com/awslabs/cdk8s).
